1. Taking Your Turn as the First Player
While each turn playing Uno progresses in relatively the same fashion, the first turn comes with a critical difference.
At the start of your turn, you must look at the face-up card that is on the top of the discard pile.
If this card is an action card, you must carry out the action.
For example, if a Skip card is in play, your turn will be skipped.
If a reverse card is in play, you will play your turn as usual, but then the game will begin to progress counter-clockwise instead of clockwise.
So, the player to your right will be the second player (counter-clockwise), rather than the player to your left (clockwise).
The only exception to this rule is if the starting card in the discard pile is a wild or a wild, draw four card.
If the face-up card is a wild, you can choose the color the round begins with.
If you choose a wild, draw four card, put the card back in the draw pile.
Once you have reshuffled the deck, you may turn over a new card for the discard pile.

2. Taking a Turn in General
At the start of your turn, you must adhere to the top card in the discard pile. If this card is an action card, you must play out the action.
Action cards aside, you must play a card that matches the card in the discard pile in either number, color, or action.
Alternatively, you can play a Wild card to alter the color that is currently in play.
You may only play one card each turn.
If you do not have a card that can be played, you must draw a new card from the draw pile.
You may play the card that you draw if that card can be played.
If the card cannot be played, keep it and end your turn.

3. Replenishing the Draw Pile
Should you run out of cards in the draw pile during a round, you must shuffle the discard pile to begin anew.
After you have shuffled, turn over the top card on the draw pile to create the new discard pile.
The next player must abide by the new color or number to follow or adhere to any action card.

4. Finishing a Round and Winning the Game
Once a player has played all of their cards and has no cards remaining, the game round is completed.
